[DOCSW-379] feat: add doc for building plane app (#119)
makeplane/developer-docs: guides/build-plane-app.mdx

---

> title: Build your Plane Integration app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Build a Plane app
```

sidebarTitle: Build your Plane Integration app
description: Step-by-step guide for developers to build and integrate an app with Plane.so using OAuth-based authentication and authorization workflow.
---

> This guide provides step-by-step instructions for developers to build and integrate an app with Plane.so using an OAuth-based authentication and authorization workflow.

Reviewer: I agree with your feedback @zuketo - let's make those changes to the `description` on line 4 and delete this paragraph on line 7 because this content is nearly identical and rendering *twice* right now.

<img width="788" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/77b0eb4a-c59a-4cb6-aa23-6b034140b0a1" />

> This guide provides step-by-step instructions for developers to build and integrate an app with Plane.so using an OAuth-based authentication and authorization workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Introduction

> Plane.so supports OAuth 2.0 for secure authentication and authorization of third-party applications. This ensures that apps can request and obtain access tokens on behalf of users, enabling seamless integration while maintaining security standards.

Reviewer: IMO the **Introduction** should immediately establish _what_ a Plane Integration is so the reader quickly has an understanding of the topic being discussed. This intro should be succinct and direct so readers don't have much of a chance to bounce. After this intro, establishing the _Why_ makes more sense. _Why_ can spend time going deeper into the details since the reader has already decided this is the correct page for them.

The Why suggestions is a good start @zuketo - though I suggest fixing the sentence fragments before landing.

```suggestion
## Introduction

Plane apps (beta) seamlessly integrate tools and services with Plane so you can use them without ever leaving your Workspace. Apps are conveniently available from our [marketplace](https://plane.so/marketplace/integrations), helping you stay focused and productive.

## Why Build a Plane app?

**Stop doing manual work.** Plane integrations eliminate repetitive tasks like copying updates between tools, creating work items from support tickets, and generating status reports. Instead of spending hours on administrative work, let your app handle it automatically.

**Connect everything you already use.** Your team probably uses dozens of different tools. Plane apps create a unified workflow by connecting your favorite CRM, time tracking app, CI/CD pipelines, communication tools, and more, together into Plane. One change in Plane can trigger updates across your entire tech stack.

**Build exactly what you need.** Unlike rigid SaaS platforms, Plane's open core nature means you can create integrations that fit your specific workflow. 
```

## Prerequisites

> * A Plane.so workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A Plane workspace.
```

> * A Plane.so workspace.

Author: @zuketo we can make it available for free workspaces. Just that they won't be able to build and test Pro features. For that, we can upgrade them to pro for a while. Can we update messaging to reflect that?

> * Access to Plane.so developer portal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Access to Plane developer portal
```

* Familiarity with OAuth 2.0 concepts (authorization code flow).
* A backend server to handle OAuth token exchange.

## High-Level Workflow

1. **Register your app on Plane.so developer portal**
2. **Implement OAuth authorization code flow**
3. **Obtain and store access tokens securely**
4. **Make authenticated API requests to Plane.so**

> 5. **Handle token refresh**

Reviewer: Each of these bullet points should not be bold and should be links to the sections below.

## Registering Your App

> To build an OAuth application with Plane.so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build an OAuth application with Plane:
```

1. Navigate to `https://app.plane.so/<workspace_slug>/settings/applications/`.
2. Click on the **Build your own** button.
3. Fill out the form with the required details:

>    * **Redirect URIs**: Provide the URIs where Plane.so will send the authorization code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * **Redirect URIs**: Provide the URIs where Plane will send the authorization code.
```

   * **Contact Details**: Add your email or other contact information.

>    * **Webhook URL Endpoint**: Update this with your service's webhook endpoint. Plane.so will send webhooks for all changes that happen in the installed workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * **Webhook URL Endpoint**: Update this with your service's webhook endpoint. Plane will send webhooks for all changes that happen in the installed workspace.
```

>    * **Organization Details**: Include contact email, privacy policy URL, terms of service URL, and any other relevant information. This helps Plane.so validate and approve your application for listing in the marketplace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * **Organization Details**: Include contact email, privacy policy URL, terms of service URL, and any other relevant information. This helps Plane validate and approve your application for listing in the marketplace.
```

4. If you're building an agent (with or without using Plane's ADK) capable of performing operations when assigned or mentioned, enable the **Is Mentionable** checkbox during app creation.

> 5. Once the app is created, securely store the **Client ID** and **Client Secret**. You will need these credentials to interact with Plane.so's API during the OAuth flow and for making authenticated API requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Once the app is created, securely store the **Client ID** and **Client Secret**. You will need these credentials to interact with Plane's API during the OAuth flow and for making authenticated API requests.
```

## Authentication Setup

### Generating Consent URL

Before handling types of authentication, if your app manages installation, you must generate the consent (authorization) URL to initiate the OAuth flow. Below is a sample implementation:

```python
params = {
    "client_id": os.getenv("PLANE_CLIENT_ID"),
    "response_type": "code",
    "redirect_uri": os.getenv("PLANE_REDIRECT_URI"),
    # Optional: include state if needed
}

consent_url = f"https://api.plane.so/auth/o/authorize-app/?{urlencode(params)}"

> ```

Reviewer: Something is up with the syntax highlighting, at least on local dev. Please confirm this is the correct way to format code blocks using mint.

<img width="751" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9d8c98e1-e2e2-4d46-80d1-f544d16b856d" />

There are two types of authenticated actions your application can perform:

1. **User-authorized actions** — Actions performed on behalf of a user after they grant permission to your app via OAuth.

> 2. **App-authorized actions** — Actions that the app can perform independently within the workspace where it is installed (such as responding to webhooks or automation triggers).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **App-authorized actions**: Actions that the app can perform independently within the workspace where it is installed (such as responding to webhooks or automation triggers).
```

We will describe how to configure and use each type in the following sections.

### App-Authorized Actions (Client Credentials Flow)

> When the user or admin installs the app, Plane.so will send an `app_installation_id` as part of the callback to the `redirect_uri` provided during consent URL generation. You can use this `app_installation_id` to request a bot token for your app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the app is installed, Plane will send an `app_installation_id` as part of the callback to the `redirect_uri` provided during consent URL generation. You can use this `app_installation_id` to request a bot token for your app.
```

> #### Example Pseudo-code

Reviewer: Please make this real code, not pseudo-code so it's more clear to readers how to do this. Pseudo instills a question in me about whether or not I can actually run this.

            "slug": "sandbox",
            "id": "7a2e5944-c117-4a7d-b5f4-058fe705d7d1",
            "logo_url": null
        },
        "created_at": "2025-05-16T13:50:27.865821Z",
        "updated_at": "2025-06-23T08:57:26.976742Z",
        "deleted_at": null,
        "status": "installed",
        "workspace": "7a2e5944-c117-4a7d-b5f4-058fe705d7d1",
        "application": "ab235529-388a-4f51-a55a-78272251f5f1",
        "installed_by": "63333ab1-c605-42fc-82f7-5cd86799eca1",
        "app_bot": "7286aaa7-9250-4851-a520-29c904fd7654", // app's bot user id in the workspace
        "webhook": "b1f4b7f1-51e8-4919-a84c-0b1143b51d2c"
    }
]
```

## Using Plane SDKs

To simplify the OAuth flow and make it easier to build Plane apps, official SDKs are available:

* **Node.js**: `npm i @makeplane/plane-node-sdk`
* **Python**: `pip install plane-sdk`

These SDKs provide helpers for OAuth and other common tasks, allowing developers to implement the above flows efficiently.

## Listing Your App on Plane Marketplace

Apps built using the OAuth flow can be listed on the Plane Marketplace: [https://plane.so/marketplace/integrations](https://plane.so/marketplace/integrations)

> To list your app, please contact the Plane team at [**support@plane.so**](mailto:support@plane.so).

Author: We don't have an app right now, once I have examples I'll update the doc

workflow by connecting your favorite CRM, time tracking app, CI/CD pipelines,
communication tools, and more, together into Plane. One change in Plane can
trigger updates across your entire tech stack.

**Build exactly what you need.**
Unlike rigid SaaS platforms, Plane's open core nature means you can create
integrations that fit your specific workflow.

## Prerequisites

- A [Plane](https://app.plane.so) workspace
- Admin access to your workspace settings
- Familiarity with OAuth 2.0 concepts (authorization code flow)
- A backend server to handle OAuth token exchange

## High-Level Workflow

1. [Register your app on Plane developer portal](/guides/build-plane-app/#registering-your-app)
2. [Implement OAuth authorization code flow](/guides/build-plane-app#authentication-setup)
3. Obtain and store access tokens securely
4. Make authenticated API requests to Plane
5. Handle token refresh

## Registering Your App

To build an OAuth application with Plane:

1. Navigate to `https://app.plane.so/<workspace_slug>/settings/applications/`.
2. Click on the **Build your own** button.
3. Fill out the form with the required details:

>    - **Redirect URIs**: Provide the URIs where Plane will send the authorization code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Redirect URIs**: An allow-list of your app URIs to which Plane is permitted to send authorization codes during User Authorized Actions and Content URL Generation flows.
```

   - **Contact Details**: Add your email or other contact information.
   - **Webhook URL Endpoint**: Update this with your service's webhook endpoint. Plane will send webhooks for all changes that happen in the installed workspace.
   - **Organization Details**: Include contact email, privacy policy URL, terms of service URL, and any other relevant information. This helps Plane validate and approve your application for listing in the marketplace.

> 4. If you're building an agent (with or without using Plane's ADK) capable of performing operations when assigned or mentioned, enable the **Is Mentionable** checkbox during app creation.

Author: We enabled Is Mentionable by default. This will result in all apps coming in assignees and other user fields. It'll be noise if there are too many apps in the assignees/members list.
We took inspiration from other products in similar to space to control this using a flag. Which will be moved to a `scope` in future once they're available.

5. Once the app is created, securely store the **Client ID** and **Client Secret**. You will need these credentials to interact with Plane's API during the OAuth flow and for making authenticated API requests.

> 

Reviewer: The screenshot below is from app.plane.so/plane/settings/applications/create Is this page up to date? There are a lot of additional fields on the page not mentioned in this guide, many of which are not clearly explained or contain confusing placeholders. Until that page is fixed up, let's clarify what we can in this guide so people aren't intimidated and leave.

1. Are all the fields not mentioned in this guide optional? If they are, let's tell them they are all optional except for what we list in this guide.
2. "App slug" - How is this used? 
3. "Website" - How is this used?
4. "Select the categories that best describe the app" - What will this be used for?
5. "App Maker" - What does this mean, how is this used?
6. "Redirect URIs" - We cover this in the guide but the placeholder for this element needs to be fixed (offtopic for this PR)
7. "Authorized Javascript Origins" - When would developers use this? 
8. "Setup URL" - What should this be set to?
9. "Drag and drop to upload external files" - When would developers need to do this?

<img width="516" height="784" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3288cfd5-be89-42d6-b6fb-ba2b4720cacc" />

## Authentication Setup

### Generating Consent URL

> Before handling authentication, if your app manages installation, you must generate the consent (authorization) URL to initiate the OAuth flow. Below are sample implementations:

Reviewer: > if your app manages installation

We need to define what managing installation means before we reference it. When I read this, I wonder if I missed something and I scroll back up to scan for anything that might be related to managing installation. 

- What does managing installation mean? 
- When would I need or not need to manage installation? 

If generating a consent URL is optional, I recommend moving this section later in the guide, to a location next to where the consent URL is required.

params = {
    "client_id": os.getenv("PLANE_CLIENT_ID"),
    "response_type": "code",
    "redirect_uri": os.getenv("PLANE_REDIRECT_URI"),
    # Optional: include state if needed
}

consent_url = f"https://api.plane.so/auth/o/authorize-app/?{urlencode(params)}"
```

</Tab>
<Tab title="TypeScript">

```typescript
import { URLSearchParams } from 'url';

const params = new URLSearchParams({
  client_id: process.env.PLANE_CLIENT_ID!,
  response_type: "code",
  redirect_uri: process.env.PLANE_REDIRECT_URI!,
  // Optional: include state if needed
});

const consentUrl = `https://api.plane.so/auth/o/authorize-app/?${params.toString()}`;
```

</Tab>
</Tabs>

There are two types of authenticated actions your application can perform:

1. **User-authorized actions**: Actions performed on behalf of a user after they grant permission to your app via OAuth.
2. **App-authorized actions**: Actions that the app can perform independently within the workspace where it is installed (such as responding to webhooks or automation triggers).

We will describe how to configure and use each type in the following sections.

### App-Authorized Actions (Client Credentials Flow)

> When the app is installed, Plane will send an `app_installation_id` as part of the callback to the `redirect_uri` provided during consent URL generation. You can use this `app_installation_id` to request a bot token for your app.

Reviewer: In the other flow, we tell the developer to securely store the returned token. Let's do that here too.

const redirectUri = "your_redirect_uri";

const payload = {
  grant_type: "authorization_code",
  code: code,
  client_id: clientId,
  client_secret: clientSecret,
  redirect_uri: redirectUri
};

const response = await axios.post(
  "https://api.plane.so/auth/o/token/",
  payload,
  {
    headers: {
      "Content-Type": "application/x-www-form-urlencoded"
    }
  }
);

// Parse the response
const responseData = response.data;
const accessToken = responseData.access_token;
const refreshToken = responseData.refresh_token;
const expiresIn = responseData.expires_in;

// When access token expires, use refresh token to get a new access token
const refreshPayload = {
  grant_type: "refresh_token",
  refresh_token: refreshToken,
  client_id: clientId,
  client_secret: clientSecret
};

const refreshResponse = await axios.post(
  "https://api.plane.so/auth/o/token/",
  refreshPayload,
  {
    headers: {
      "Content-Type": "application/x-www-form-urlencoded"
    }
  }
);

// Parse the refresh response
const refreshResponseData = refreshResponse.data;
const accessToken = refreshResponseData.access_token;
```

</Tab>
</Tabs>

### Fetching App Installation Details

> In both user-authorized and app-authorized flows, the `app_installation_id` identifies the app's installation within a specific workspace. It is recommended that developers fetch workspace details after OAuth is successfully completed. Plane provides an `app-installation` endpoint that works with both types of tokens.

Reviewer: > It is recommended that developers fetch workspace details after OAuth is successfully completed.

Is it possible to use the API to fetch workspace details if Oauth hasn't been completed?

Reviewer: > both types of tokens

Are you referring to the `refresh_token` and `access_token` or the `bot token` and `access_token`?
